- [Instructor] No discussion of Quarkus would be complete
without a discussion of the dependency injection strategy
for the framework as a whole.
Dependency injection is a different way
of dealing with the constructs of control.
Instead of you managing the state of the classes
that are part of your application,
you allow the container to manage them.
Let's take a look at how this works.
First and foremost, we start with our container.
Now this is any web application,
any batch job, any container whatsoever,
as long as Quarkus is controlling it.
Now we're going to imagine that our container
manages several classes or beans, as they become defined,
once they are part of Quarkus.
Now, one of our classes needs a dependency.
With traditional dependency management,
you would create the object you need in your class,
but instead we will define it
so the container can create it.
Then, you allow the container to inject the class
that needs to consume it.
So instead of us managing it within this class,
we manage it within the container
and inject it in as need be.
Now it's important to note here
that with dependency injection
the container still keeps the reference
to the original bean, not just the class it's injected into.
So you'll see in this diagram here
that we actually have the same object,
but it's referenced both from within the container
as well as the class or bean that it was injected into.
And this way, if that ever goes out of scope,
the container still maintains a reference to it
no matter what the situation.
In Quarkus, dependency injection is a core competency
of the framework, and you do need to fully understand it
and learn how to leverage it within the framework
to get the most out of it.
In Quarkus, this is called
contexts and dependency injection, or CDI.
With CDI, the application beans are managed
by the container itself.
Defining new application beans
is as simple as an annotation.
Here's an example of making a bean ApplicationScoped,
indicating it is a single instance bean
available to the client proxy.
Now, there are other examples like Singleton
and RequestScoped, and many other ones.
Scoping of beans can become a complex topic,
and I would suggest you spend some time
looking into these within the documentation.
Now, once a bean is available to the container,
it needs to be injected into your bean.
Now, I'm a fan of constructor level injection
and continue to use that with Quarkus as I did with Spring,
but you have other options with Quarkus
like field-level injection and center-based injection,
just like you do with other frameworks.
Now, I want to spend a moment here to show you
some basic injection,
though not a very complicated situation.
So let's jump into our code from our previous example
and into our package, and let's create a new class.
And this class we're going to call GreetingConfig.
Now our GreetingConfig
is going to maintain a single instance value,
and it will be a type string called recipient.
And for right now, we're just going to make it static.
And simply saying LinkedIn Learning Students.
Now, I'm going to use my IDE here
to generate a getter and setter on this.
And now we will take this value
and make this ApplicationScoped.
So now that this is ApplicationScoped,
we can go back into our greeting class,
we can create an instance of our GreetingConfig.
Now, let's go ahead and create a constructor,
sending in our GreetingConfig,
and we will do an @Inject on this.
So what this is saying is, is from the context,
when you create this bean,
make sure that you inject a GreetingConfig
that is maintained in the Quarkus context.
And now finally, we will replace the world here
with config.getRecipient.
Okay, now I'm going to run my application,
and I'm just going to use my IDE to run it from here on out,
just because it's easier for me.
Obviously, you can set up a run config in your IDE.
You can run it from your command line.
You can run this multiple ways,
but for me and for these purposes,
I'm just going to run it directly from within my IDE.
So now that it's up, let's jump to a terminal window,
and let's simply do an http 8080/greeting,
and you'll see that I now return back
Hello LinkedIn Learning Students.
Now that HTTP command,
it's just a utility I run called HTTPie.
You could have used cURL here.
You could have gone to the web browser.
Again, multiple ways to execute
a simple local host web request and slash greeting.
This is the method that I chose here,
using this tool HTTPie as it's called,
which is just a utility that I run.
But again, web browser's fine, cURL's fine,
however you want to execute that command.
Again, it's your local host 8080/greeting,
and just ensure that we're now getting that data.
So let's step back for just one moment
and take a look at what we did.
So we injected into our greeting class,
which is the root web application that we are running,
we injected an instance of GreetingConfig.
And GreetingConfig was just a statically configured class.
We then pulled data out of that injected resource
into our get call so that we can now make it
a little bit more dynamic.
And again, we can change that config.
We can do this multiple ways,
including what we're going to jump into next,
which is actually configuring the value
that gets injected in at startup.